
README (qadssh)

    Definition

        Enhanced version of QadSSH v1 to use in combination with Bash aliases
        for quicker SSH access to remote systems.

    Details

        In order to speed up the SSH login process every time you need to
        connect to a remote host via SSH, you can use this script in
        combination with Bash aliases.

        As the name implies the project is a more or less quick-and-dirty
        solution in order to save some time.

        The script itself still needs to be modified and enhanced, as there
        are no features such as error handling, yet.

        Unlike QadSSH v1, there is no network class limitation.

        Feel free to modify!

    Usage

        QadSSH v2 expects two command-line arguments which are the following:

            - Network prefix (without trailing dot)
            - Host IP address (without leading dot)
            - SSH username (optional)

        If no username is given, you can select one via an interactive menu by
        adding usernames to 'ssh_users.conf'. For example, adding those names

            hansgruber
            johndoe
            root

        to that file will give you the following menu (let us assume your
        current username is "someuser"):

            Please select a user to establish the connection with

            [1] hansgruber
            [2] johndoe
            [3] root
            [0] Current user (someuser)

            or enter the username manually (default is someuser).

        As mentioned above there is no network class limitation. See examples
        below.

    Examples

        Below are some examples with different network classes in short form
        for the script itself, without any details about adding Bash aliases.

        It is important how the dots must be set for the addresses. Both of
        the values must be without a leading and without a trailing dot.
                         |           |
                         |           |
            ./qadssh.sh 10         0.0.2  root
            ./qadssh.sh 10         0.0.2

            ./qadssh.sh 192.168    1.2    root
            ./qadssh.sh 192.168    1.2

            ./qadssh.sh 172.16.12  2      root
            ./qadssh.sh 172.16.12  2

        As mentioned in the usage section, the lines which do not end with a
        username will show an interactive menu and give you a list of the
        usernames added to 'ssh_users.conf'.

    Contact

        Any suggestions, questions, bugs to report or feedback to give? If so,
        you can find the contact information inside the 'CONTACT' file.

